1. The Entry Point

The process starts

2. The Backend Logic (The "Brain")

Once the data reaches the Backend API Endpoint in strcture of webhook.json, it performs a crucial check: "Is this a New Sender or not?"

    If New: A new entry is created in the Database .

    If Returning: The system fetches the existing chat history (JSON structure shown in the top-left box) associated with that waNumber.

3. Contextual Processing & AI Integration

This is where your red arrows show the "Combined Prompt" logic:

    Data Assembly: The backend takes the old history from the Database (DBMSG) and appends the new message (waMSG).

    The AI Call: This combined context is sent to the AI Model (Puter textToText AI no-auth method). This ensures the AI remembers what was said 2 minutes ago or 2 days ago.

4. The Summarization Strategy (Cost & Token Optimization)

You’ve included a smart optimization note in the bottom right. As conversations grow, sending the entire history becomes expensive and hits "context window" limits. Your plan is:

    Monitor Length: Once the history gets too long, don't send it all.

    Summarize: Use a "cheaper" model (Puter textToText AI no-auth method) to condense the entire previous history into a single paragraph.

    Replace: Swap the massive history block with that single summary in the next API call.

Key Strengths of this Architecture

    State Management: By using the waNumber as a primary key in your database, you ensure the bot never "forgets" who it's talking to.

    Cost Efficiency: Using a cheaper model for summarization is an industry best practice to keep LLM costs down while maintaining "long-term memory."

A Suggestion for your JSON Structure

In your top-left box, you show waMSG as an object. For easier scaling with AI models, it is often better to store messages in an Array of Objects, like this:
JSON

"messages": [
  {"role": "user", "content": "hi"},
  {"role": "assistant", "content": "hello, welcome!"},
  {"role": "system", "content": "Summary of previous chat: User is looking for pricing."}
]